docs/source/community/versioning_policy.md, before:

# Versioning policy

Starting with vLLM 0.7.x, the vLLM Ascend Plugin ([vllm-project/vllm-ascend](https://github.com/vllm-project/vllm-ascend)) project follows the [PEP 440](https://peps.python.org/pep-0440/) to publish matching with vLLM ([vllm-project/vllm](https://github.com/vllm-project/vllm)).

## vLLM Ascend Plugin versions

Each vLLM Ascend release is versioned as `v[major].[minor].[micro][rcN][.postN]` (such as
`v0.7.3rc1`, `v0.7.3`, `v0.7.3.post1`)

- **Final releases**: Typically scheduled every three months, with careful alignment to the vLLM upstream release cycle and the Ascend software product roadmap.
- **Pre releases**: Typically issued **on demand**, labeled with rcN to indicate the Nth release candidate. They are intended to support early testing by users ahead of the final release.
- **Post releases**: Typically issued **on demand** to address minor errors in a final release. Different from [PEP-440 post release note](https://peps.python.org/pep-0440/#post-releases) convention, these versions include actual bug fixes, as the final release version must strictly align with the vLLM final release format (`v[major].[minor].[micro]`). Any post version must be published as a patch version of the final release.

For example:
- `v0.7.x`: first final release to match the vLLM `v0.7.x` version.
- `v0.7.3rc1`: first pre version of vLLM Ascend.
- `v0.7.3.post1`: post release for the `v0.7.3` release if it has some minor errors.

## Release compatibility matrix

The table below is the release compatibility matrix for vLLM Ascend Plugin.

| vLLM Ascend | vLLM         | Python           | Stable CANN | PyTorch/torch_npu  | MindIE Turbo |
|-------------|--------------|------------------|-------------|--------------------|--------------|
| v0.11.0rc0  | v0.11.0rc3      | >= 3.9, < 3.12   | 8.2.RC1     | 2.7.1 / 2.7.1.dev20250724            |              |
| v0.10.2rc1  | v0.10.2      | >= 3.9, < 3.12   | 8.2.RC1     | 2.7.1 / 2.7.1.dev20250724            |              |
| v0.10.1rc1  | v0.10.1/v0.10.1.1 | >= 3.9, < 3.12   | 8.2.RC1     | 2.7.1 / 2.7.1.dev20250724            |              |
| v0.10.0rc1  | v0.10.0      | >= 3.9, < 3.12   | 8.2.RC1     | 2.7.1 / 2.7.1.dev20250724            |              |
| v0.9.2rc1   | v0.9.2       | >= 3.9, < 3.12   | 8.1.RC1     | 2.5.1 / 2.5.1.post1.dev20250619      |              |
| v0.9.1      | v0.9.1       | >= 3.9, < 3.12   | 8.2.RC1     | 2.5.1 / 2.5.1.post1 |              |
| v0.9.1rc3   | v0.9.1       | >= 3.9, < 3.12   | 8.2.RC1     | 2.5.1 / 2.5.1.post1 |              |
| v0.9.1rc2   | v0.9.1       | >= 3.9, < 3.12   | 8.2.RC1     | 2.5.1 / 2.5.1.post1|              |
| v0.9.1rc1   | v0.9.1       | >= 3.9, < 3.12   | 8.1.RC1     | 2.5.1 / 2.5.1.post1.dev20250528      |              |
| v0.9.0rc2   | v0.9.0       | >= 3.9, < 3.12   | 8.1.RC1     | 2.5.1 / 2.5.1      |              |
| v0.9.0rc1   | v0.9.0       | >= 3.9, < 3.12   | 8.1.RC1     | 2.5.1 / 2.5.1      |              |
| v0.8.5rc1   | v0.8.5.post1 | >= 3.9, < 3.12   | 8.1.RC1     | 2.5.1 / 2.5.1      |              |
| v0.8.4rc2   | v0.8.4       | >= 3.9, < 3.12   | 8.0.0       | 2.5.1 / 2.5.1      |              |
| v0.7.3.post1| v0.7.3       | >= 3.9, < 3.12   | 8.1.RC1     | 2.5.1 / 2.5.1      |   2.0rc1     |
| v0.7.3      | v0.7.3       | >= 3.9, < 3.12   | 8.1.RC1     | 2.5.1 / 2.5.1      |   2.0rc1     |

## Release cadence

### Release window

| Date       | Event                                     |
|------------|-------------------------------------------|
| 2025.09.30 | Release candidates, v0.11.0rc0            |
| 2025.09.16 | Release candidates, v0.10.2rc1            |
| 2025.09.04 | Release candidates, v0.10.1rc1            |
| 2025.09.03 | v0.9.1 Final release                      |
| 2025.08.22 | Release candidates, v0.9.1rc3             |
| 2025.08.07 | Release candidates, v0.10.0rc1            |
| 2025.08.04 | Release candidates, v0.9.1rc2             |
| 2025.07.11 | Release candidates, v0.9.2rc1             |
| 2025.06.22 | Release candidates, v0.9.1rc1             |
| 2025.06.10 | Release candidates, v0.9.0rc2             |
| 2025.06.09 | Release candidates, v0.9.0rc1             |
| 2025.05.29 | v0.7.x post release, v0.7.3.post1         |
| 2025.05.08 | v0.7.x Final release, v0.7.3              |
| 2025.05.06 | Release candidates, v0.8.5rc1             |
| 2025.04.28 | Release candidates, v0.8.4rc2             |
| 2025.04.18 | Release candidates, v0.8.4rc1             |
| 2025.03.28 | Release candidates, v0.7.3rc2             |
| 2025.03.14 | Release candidates, v0.7.3rc1             |
| 2025.02.19 | Release candidates, v0.7.1rc1             |

## Branch policy

vLLM Ascend includes two branches: main and dev.

- **main**: corresponds to the vLLM main branch and latest 1 or 2 release version. It is continuously monitored for quality through Ascend CI.
- **vX.Y.Z-dev**: development branch, created with part of new releases of vLLM. For example, `v0.7.3-dev` is the dev branch for vLLM `v0.7.3` version.

Commits should typically be merged into the main branch first, and only then backported to the dev branch, to reduce maintenance costs as much as possible.

### Maintenance branch and EOL
The table below lists branch states.

| Branch            | Time Frame                       | Summary                                                   |
| ----------------- | -------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------- |
| Maintained        | Approximately 2-3 minor versions | Bugfixes received; releases produced; CI commitment       |
| Unmaintained      | Community-interest driven        | Bugfixes received; no releases produced; no CI commitment |
| End of Life (EOL) | N/A                              | Branch no longer accepting changes                        |

### Branch states

Note that vLLM Ascend will only be released for a certain vLLM release version, not for every version. Hence, you may notice that some versions have corresponding dev branches (e.g. `0.7.1-dev` and `0.7.3-dev` ), while others do not (e.g. `0.7.2-dev`).

Usually, each minor version of vLLM (such as 0.7) corresponds to a vLLM Ascend version branch and supports its latest version (such as 0.7.3), as shown below:

| Branch     | State        | Note                                                     |
| ---------- | ------------ | -------------------------------------------------------- |
| main       | Maintained   | CI commitment for vLLM main branch and vLLM 0.9.2 branch |
| v0.9.1-dev | Maintained   | CI commitment for vLLM 0.9.1 version                     |
| v0.7.3-dev | Maintained   | CI commitment for vLLM 0.7.3 version                     |
| v0.7.1-dev | Unmaintained | Replaced by v0.7.3-dev                                   |

### Feature branches

| Branch     | State       | RFC Link                             | Scheduled Merge Time | Mentor |
|------------|--------------|---------------------------------------|------------|--------|
|rfc/long_seq_optimization|Maintained|https://github.com/vllm-project/vllm/issues/22693|930|wangxiyuan|
- Branch: The feature branch should be created with a prefix `rfc/` followed by the feature name, such as `rfc/feature-name`.
- State: The state of the feature branch is `Maintained` until it is merged into the main branch or deleted.
- RFC Link: The feature branch should be created with a corresponding RFC issue. The creation of a feature branch requires an RFC and approval from at least two maintainers.
- Scheduled Merge Time: The final goal of a feature branch is to be merged into the main branch. If it remains unmerged for more than three months, the mentor maintainer should evaluate whether to delete the branch.
- Mentor: The mentor should be a vLLM Ascend maintainer who is responsible for the feature branch.

### Backward compatibility

For main branch, vLLM Ascend should works with vLLM main branch and latest 1 or 2 releases. To ensure backward compatibility, do as follows:
- Both main branch and target vLLM release, such as the vLLM main branch and vLLM 0.8.4, are tested by Ascend E2E CI.
- To make sure that code changes are compatible with the latest 1 or 2 vLLM releases, vLLM Ascend introduces a version check mechanism inside the code. It checks the version of the installed vLLM package first to decide which code logic to use. If users hit the `InvalidVersion` error, it may indicate that they have installed a dev or editable version of vLLM package. In this case, we provide the env variable `VLLM_VERSION` to let users specify the version of vLLM package to use.
- Document changes should be compatible with the latest 1 or 2 vLLM releases. Notes should be added if there are any breaking changes.

## Document branch policy
To reduce maintenance costs, **all branch documentation content should remain consistent, and version differences can be controlled via variables in [docs/source/conf.py](https://github.com/vllm-project/vllm-ascend/blob/main/docs/source/conf.py)**. While this is not a simple task, it is a principle we should strive to follow.

| Version | Purpose | Code Branch |
|-----|-----|---------|
| latest | Doc for the latest dev branch | vX.Y.Z-dev (Will be `main` after the first final release) |
| version | Doc for historical released versions | Git tags, like vX.Y.Z[rcN] |
| stable (not yet released) | Doc for latest final release branch | Will be `vX.Y.Z-dev` after the first official release |

Notes:

- `latest` documentation: Matches the current maintenance branch `vX.Y.Z-dev` (will be `main` after the first final release). It is continuously updated to ensure usability for the latest release.
- `version` documentation: Corresponds to specific released versions (e.g., `v0.7.3`, `v0.7.3rc1`). There are no further updates after release.
- `stable` documentation (**not yet released**): Official release documentation. Updates are allowed in real-time after release, typically based on vX.Y.Z-dev. Once stable documentation is available, non-stable versions should display a header warning: `You are viewing the latest developer preview docs. Click here to view docs for the latest stable release.`.

## Software dependency management
- `torch-npu`: Ascend Extension for PyTorch (torch-npu) releases a stable version to [PyPi](https://pypi.org/project/torch-npu)
  every 3 months, a development version (aka the POC version) every month, and a nightly version every day.
  The PyPi stable version **CAN** be used in vLLM Ascend final version, the monthly dev version **ONLY CAN** be used in
  vLLM Ascend RC version for rapid iteration, and the nightly version **CANNOT** be used in vLLM Ascend any version and branch.

Commit message:

[Doc] Update version policy (#3999)
Add version policy for main branch to clear how vllm-ascend work with
vllm

- vLLM version: v0.11.0
- vLLM main:
https://github.com/vllm-project/vllm/commit/83f478bb19489b41e9d208b47b4bb5a95ac171ac

Signed-off-by: wangxiyuan <wangxiyuan1007@gmail.com>
Signed-off-by: hwhaokun <haokun0405@163.com>

docs/source/community/versioning_policy.md, after:

# Versioning policy

Starting with vLLM 0.7.x, the vLLM Ascend Plugin ([vllm-project/vllm-ascend](https://github.com/vllm-project/vllm-ascend)) project follows the [PEP 440](https://peps.python.org/pep-0440/) to publish matching with vLLM ([vllm-project/vllm](https://github.com/vllm-project/vllm)).

## vLLM Ascend Plugin versions

Each vLLM Ascend release is versioned as `v[major].[minor].[micro][rcN][.postN]` (such as
`v0.7.3rc1`, `v0.7.3`, `v0.7.3.post1`)

- **Final releases**: Typically scheduled every three months, with careful alignment to the vLLM upstream release cycle and the Ascend software product roadmap.
- **Pre releases**: Typically issued **on demand**, labeled with rcN to indicate the Nth release candidate. They are intended to support early testing by users ahead of the final release.
- **Post releases**: Typically issued **on demand** to address minor errors in a final release. Different from [PEP-440 post release note](https://peps.python.org/pep-0440/#post-releases) convention, these versions include actual bug fixes, as the final release version must strictly align with the vLLM final release format (`v[major].[minor].[micro]`). Any post version must be published as a patch version of the final release.

For example:
- `v0.7.x`: first final release to match the vLLM `v0.7.x` version.
- `v0.7.3rc1`: first pre version of vLLM Ascend.
- `v0.7.3.post1`: post release for the `v0.7.3` release if it has some minor errors.

## Release compatibility matrix

The table below is the release compatibility matrix for vLLM Ascend release.

| vLLM Ascend | vLLM         | Python           | Stable CANN | PyTorch/torch_npu  | MindIE Turbo |
|-------------|--------------|------------------|-------------|--------------------|--------------|
| v0.11.0rc0  | v0.11.0rc3      | >= 3.9, < 3.12   | 8.2.RC1     | 2.7.1 / 2.7.1.dev20250724            |              |
| v0.10.2rc1  | v0.10.2      | >= 3.9, < 3.12   | 8.2.RC1     | 2.7.1 / 2.7.1.dev20250724            |              |
| v0.10.1rc1  | v0.10.1/v0.10.1.1 | >= 3.9, < 3.12   | 8.2.RC1     | 2.7.1 / 2.7.1.dev20250724            |              |
| v0.10.0rc1  | v0.10.0      | >= 3.9, < 3.12   | 8.2.RC1     | 2.7.1 / 2.7.1.dev20250724            |              |
| v0.9.2rc1   | v0.9.2       | >= 3.9, < 3.12   | 8.1.RC1     | 2.5.1 / 2.5.1.post1.dev20250619      |              |
| v0.9.1      | v0.9.1       | >= 3.9, < 3.12   | 8.2.RC1     | 2.5.1 / 2.5.1.post1 |              |
| v0.9.1rc3   | v0.9.1       | >= 3.9, < 3.12   | 8.2.RC1     | 2.5.1 / 2.5.1.post1 |              |
| v0.9.1rc2   | v0.9.1       | >= 3.9, < 3.12   | 8.2.RC1     | 2.5.1 / 2.5.1.post1|              |
| v0.9.1rc1   | v0.9.1       | >= 3.9, < 3.12   | 8.1.RC1     | 2.5.1 / 2.5.1.post1.dev20250528      |              |
| v0.9.0rc2   | v0.9.0       | >= 3.9, < 3.12   | 8.1.RC1     | 2.5.1 / 2.5.1      |              |
| v0.9.0rc1   | v0.9.0       | >= 3.9, < 3.12   | 8.1.RC1     | 2.5.1 / 2.5.1      |              |
| v0.8.5rc1   | v0.8.5.post1 | >= 3.9, < 3.12   | 8.1.RC1     | 2.5.1 / 2.5.1      |              |
| v0.8.4rc2   | v0.8.4       | >= 3.9, < 3.12   | 8.0.0       | 2.5.1 / 2.5.1      |              |
| v0.7.3.post1| v0.7.3       | >= 3.9, < 3.12   | 8.1.RC1     | 2.5.1 / 2.5.1      |   2.0rc1     |
| v0.7.3      | v0.7.3       | >= 3.9, < 3.12   | 8.1.RC1     | 2.5.1 / 2.5.1      |   2.0rc1     |

For main branch of vLLM Ascend, we usually make it compatible with the latest vLLM release and a newer commit hash of vLLM. Please note that this table is usually updated. Please check it regularly.
| vLLM Ascend | vLLM         | Python           | Stable CANN | PyTorch/torch_npu  |
|-------------|--------------|------------------|-------------|--------------------|
|     main    | v0.11.0/83f478bb19489b41e9d208b47b4bb5a95ac171ac | >= 3.10, < 3.12   | 8.3.RC1 | 2.7.1 / 2.7.1 |

## Release cadence

### Release window

| Date       | Event                                     |
|------------|-------------------------------------------|
| 2025.09.30 | Release candidates, v0.11.0rc0            |
| 2025.09.16 | Release candidates, v0.10.2rc1            |
| 2025.09.04 | Release candidates, v0.10.1rc1            |
| 2025.09.03 | v0.9.1 Final release                      |
| 2025.08.22 | Release candidates, v0.9.1rc3             |
| 2025.08.07 | Release candidates, v0.10.0rc1            |
| 2025.08.04 | Release candidates, v0.9.1rc2             |
| 2025.07.11 | Release candidates, v0.9.2rc1             |
| 2025.06.22 | Release candidates, v0.9.1rc1             |
| 2025.06.10 | Release candidates, v0.9.0rc2             |
| 2025.06.09 | Release candidates, v0.9.0rc1             |
| 2025.05.29 | v0.7.x post release, v0.7.3.post1         |
| 2025.05.08 | v0.7.x Final release, v0.7.3              |
| 2025.05.06 | Release candidates, v0.8.5rc1             |
| 2025.04.28 | Release candidates, v0.8.4rc2             |
| 2025.04.18 | Release candidates, v0.8.4rc1             |
| 2025.03.28 | Release candidates, v0.7.3rc2             |
| 2025.03.14 | Release candidates, v0.7.3rc1             |
| 2025.02.19 | Release candidates, v0.7.1rc1             |

## Branch policy

vLLM Ascend includes two branches: main and dev.

- **main**: corresponds to the vLLM main branch and latest 1 or 2 release version. It is continuously monitored for quality through Ascend CI.
- **vX.Y.Z-dev**: development branch, created with part of new releases of vLLM. For example, `v0.7.3-dev` is the dev branch for vLLM `v0.7.3` version.

Commits should typically be merged into the main branch first, and only then backported to the dev branch, to reduce maintenance costs as much as possible.

### Maintenance branch and EOL
The table below lists branch states.

| Branch            | Time Frame                       | Summary                                                   |
| ----------------- | -------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------- |
| Maintained        | Approximately 2-3 minor versions | Bugfixes received; releases produced; CI commitment       |
| Unmaintained      | Community-interest driven        | Bugfixes received; no releases produced; no CI commitment |
| End of Life (EOL) | N/A                              | Branch no longer accepting changes                        |

### Branch states

Note that vLLM Ascend will only be released for a certain vLLM release version, not for every version. Hence, you may notice that some versions have corresponding dev branches (e.g. `0.7.1-dev` and `0.7.3-dev` ), while others do not (e.g. `0.7.2-dev`).

Usually, each minor version of vLLM (such as 0.7) corresponds to a vLLM Ascend version branch and supports its latest version (such as 0.7.3), as shown below:

| Branch     | State        | Note                                                     |
| ---------- | ------------ | -------------------------------------------------------- |
| main       | Maintained   | CI commitment for vLLM main branch and vLLM 0.9.2 branch |
| v0.9.1-dev | Maintained   | CI commitment for vLLM 0.9.1 version                     |
| v0.7.3-dev | Maintained   | CI commitment for vLLM 0.7.3 version                     |
| v0.7.1-dev | Unmaintained | Replaced by v0.7.3-dev                                   |

### Feature branches

| Branch     | State       | RFC Link                             | Scheduled Merge Time | Mentor |
|------------|--------------|---------------------------------------|------------|--------|
|rfc/long_seq_optimization|Maintained|https://github.com/vllm-project/vllm/issues/22693|930|wangxiyuan|
- Branch: The feature branch should be created with a prefix `rfc/` followed by the feature name, such as `rfc/feature-name`.
- State: The state of the feature branch is `Maintained` until it is merged into the main branch or deleted.
- RFC Link: The feature branch should be created with a corresponding RFC issue. The creation of a feature branch requires an RFC and approval from at least two maintainers.
- Scheduled Merge Time: The final goal of a feature branch is to be merged into the main branch. If it remains unmerged for more than three months, the mentor maintainer should evaluate whether to delete the branch.
- Mentor: The mentor should be a vLLM Ascend maintainer who is responsible for the feature branch.

### Backward compatibility

For main branch, vLLM Ascend should works with vLLM main branch and latest 1 or 2 releases. To ensure backward compatibility, do as follows:
- Both main branch and target vLLM release, such as the vLLM main branch and vLLM 0.8.4, are tested by Ascend E2E CI.
- To make sure that code changes are compatible with the latest 1 or 2 vLLM releases, vLLM Ascend introduces a version check mechanism inside the code. It checks the version of the installed vLLM package first to decide which code logic to use. If users hit the `InvalidVersion` error, it may indicate that they have installed a dev or editable version of vLLM package. In this case, we provide the env variable `VLLM_VERSION` to let users specify the version of vLLM package to use.
- Document changes should be compatible with the latest 1 or 2 vLLM releases. Notes should be added if there are any breaking changes.

## Document branch policy
To reduce maintenance costs, **all branch documentation content should remain consistent, and version differences can be controlled via variables in [docs/source/conf.py](https://github.com/vllm-project/vllm-ascend/blob/main/docs/source/conf.py)**. While this is not a simple task, it is a principle we should strive to follow.

| Version | Purpose | Code Branch |
|-----|-----|---------|
| latest | Doc for the latest dev branch | vX.Y.Z-dev (Will be `main` after the first final release) |
| version | Doc for historical released versions | Git tags, like vX.Y.Z[rcN] |
| stable (not yet released) | Doc for latest final release branch | Will be `vX.Y.Z-dev` after the first official release |

Notes:

- `latest` documentation: Matches the current maintenance branch `vX.Y.Z-dev` (will be `main` after the first final release). It is continuously updated to ensure usability for the latest release.
- `version` documentation: Corresponds to specific released versions (e.g., `v0.7.3`, `v0.7.3rc1`). There are no further updates after release.
- `stable` documentation (**not yet released**): Official release documentation. Updates are allowed in real-time after release, typically based on vX.Y.Z-dev. Once stable documentation is available, non-stable versions should display a header warning: `You are viewing the latest developer preview docs. Click here to view docs for the latest stable release.`.

## Software dependency management
- `torch-npu`: Ascend Extension for PyTorch (torch-npu) releases a stable version to [PyPi](https://pypi.org/project/torch-npu)
  every 3 months, a development version (aka the POC version) every month, and a nightly version every day.
  The PyPi stable version **CAN** be used in vLLM Ascend final version, the monthly dev version **ONLY CAN** be used in
  vLLM Ascend RC version for rapid iteration, and the nightly version **CANNOT** be used in vLLM Ascend any version and branch.
